>> Evan You: And
we'll actually find this pretty familiar.
So let's look at the usage first, okay?
Just ignore this super
long regular expression.
It's just for
checking whether a string is an email.
And we have an app, we have some data.
This is so small, I'm sorry.
We have an app, we have some data.
We have the text, which is foo, and
email, which starts with an empty string.
And notice this custom option,
validations.
So see, this looks very,
very similar to the plugin that
we wrote in the morning, right?
It's a validations custom
option contains text and
e-mail and each of them contains a
validate function and a message function.
Notice this message is
not just a static string.
It is actually a function that takes
the key and value of the current value so
that you can generate dynamic
warning messages at one time.
So, text must be,
length must be bigger than 5.
And for email,
we just tested against the email regular
expression to check whether it's valid.
And the good thing about being
in JavaScript is, right,
this function you can replace
it with anything you like.
So if the library provides some built in,
you can say, you can have helper functions
that just help you create these
validator functions for you, right?
And you can also have for
example compose (greaterThan(5),
allCaps().
So you can sort of have all these.
In JavaScript land you can
play with your creativity and
compose all these validation rules and
make them work together.
Or you can make your plugin
more powerful by accepting
an array of validated functions.
That's all up to you, but for
now we're just gonna do value.
>> Evan You: It must have
the minimum length of five, okay?
So and then we have,
this validate function doesn't really.
We'll use it when we submit the form.
So when the user attempts
to submit the form,
we'll again do a check to prevent it from
submitting if the form is not valid.
And notice that we're using this thing,
this sort of like, what is this $v thing?
So this $v is going to be sort of
injected or provided by the plugging.
And this $v will be a sort of a big
object that contains the whole
state of your current validation state.
So this top level valid property
essentially means the whole form
is valid or not.
If any of the fields fail a validation,
this value will be false.
And then there's some other things
that if you look at the template here,
we have a form and on the forms submit
we will call the validate function.
So that will help us prevent default,
preventing the page from reloading.
>> Evan You: And input with v-model.
Pretty straightforward,
just syncs the input into our online data.
And look at this part.
This is the part where we
display validation errors.
So notice that v-if equals not valid,
if this block only shows up if
the form is not currently valid.
And it has a red color.
So the good thing here is notice
that we are responsible for
rendering form errors ourselves because
from the plugins perspective all
it does is provide some state.
How to present that state,
how to present it to the user,
how to style all of the messages,
where to place them?
Completely up to you.
So this gives you more room for
customization and flexibility.
So we can just iterate through $v.errors.
So this is another API requirement.
The $v should expose an array of errors,
which can just be strings.
So we're just like show them here.
And then we have a form submit button,
which you can
disable the button based on
the valid status of the form.
So let's take a look at, so
if we check out the solutions.
Oops!
And run the code,
this it how it looks like, so.
Our default state already
triggers warnings.
Text should have a min length of 5,
but got 3 and the email is empty so
it's not valid, and the whole form
is disabled because it's not valid.
So let's fill in something.
Once we have a string longer than 5 the
first warning disappears, and let's just
and it's valid so
this email address gets a lot of emails.
And it's actually a valid email address.
Because it's used so often it's
almost like DDoS'ed all the time.
>> Evan You: So how do we implement that?
>> Evan You: Let's go back to the master
branch and try to implement that.
So remember for any plugin,
we should have an install method
which takes Vue as the argument.
>> Evan You: And, let's think about
what we need to do for this plug-in.
We need to be able to process
this custom validation's object.
So, that means we need
to have a global mixing
that injects the created
hook into every component.
And then we check if
(this.$options.validations),
this is where we need to do work, right?
>> Evan You: So some of the,
let's see if we actually
should use the created hook, right?
There's really, so
some of you might start to think you can
set up watchers in the created hook.
Each of the properties run
through the validations, and
then set the data onto the $v right,
that works.
That could, indeed, work.
But that feels very imperative.
Is there a more declarative
way to think about this?
The fact is, there is.
So, let's look at this $v thing.
What should it be?
Should it be just an object on
the instance that we can mutate?
Or could it just be some declarative
mapping from our current form state?
So if we take that approach,
let's actually mix it in as
a computed property, right?
So you can do this.
And now inside this computed property,
you still have access to
this.$options.validations, right?
>> Evan You: So
a more optimized version of
this plugin would only
make seeing this $v.
Property if
this.$options.validations is found.
So you can do something like- created() {
if(this.$options.validations) {
this.$options So at this point,
unfortunately, the computer properties
we have are already being initialized.
But if you use before create
>> Evan You: [INAUDIBLE] before create,
computer properties, the reactivity
system has not been set up yet.
So here is your chance to
kind of cheat the system and
like sort of
>> Evan You: just do this.
>> Evan You: So
you essentially create a, overwrite this
>> Evan You: See what we're doing here?
We're not, so we need to retain
whatever is already declared there.
But this might be on the find.
So we're just using
object.assign here here because
it can handle undefined values.
Essentially we want to clone everything,
if there is any, into this empty object,
and then eventually we add
this $v functionality to it.
S inside this $v we want
to do return something,
and it should probably have errors
if there are any, and a valid status.
So the question becomes let valid = true,
const errors = an array.
Now the question becomes,
how do we do this?
How do we map the current status
to these valid or errors?
This becomes much more straightforward.
This is just synchronous computation,
you're going from some state to another.
And where do we get the form
state that we care about?
Notice that we have this so
let's extract it out, const rules.
>> Evan You: Again we're gonna
iterate through the rules object.
Keys, rules forEach(key).
And in here we'll have rule = rules(key).
Const currentvalue =, now,
we are trying to get the value.
So, where do we get this?
Just take it from this, right?
Because we are inside a computed property,
we have access to this which
is component instance.
And this key actually
point to the field of this
particular role is interested then.
Now this is very similar to what we did in
the plugging that we did in the morning.
We can just do const result =
rule.validate,
>> Evan You: So
let me just do this, validate(value).
Right?
If the result fails
something should happen and
that is setting the whole form to invalid.
Invalidate the whole form if
any one of them fails right?
And we need to push a message into
the errors, and where do we get that?
We can do push(rule.message).
Remember message is also a function.
It takes the key, it takes the value,
and that's pretty much it.
So we've,
we're iterating through the rules.
For each rule, we'll retrieve the current
value and run the validate function.
If the result does not validate,
we will set the whole form to
invalid status and push the corresponding
message into our errors array.
And after we do this,
we simply return this object that
contains the valid field and errors.
Now this is just a computer property.
So notice that this is where
reactivity is registered.
When we access this key,
this is similar to a dot access which
triggers the getter on our instance.
So it registered the activity,
which means when any of these fields
change, our computed property
will be properly updated.
So, let's take a look.
It doesn't work.
Let's see.
It's not defined by reference
to our render, okay.
So this $v is
>> Evan You: not being defined.
>> Evan You: Okay, so
>> Evan You: options computed.
>> Evan You: Hm.
Well for the, so just to be safe,
our monkey patch and options scheme
may not be working properly.
So what we want to do is
take this whole part out.
>> Evan You: And
instead we will simply mix this computing
property into every instance.
>> Evan You: Well,
this my screen is too big so
the sensitivity of
the scrolling is much too high.
Right, so we can take these out.
Okay.
Still this on work.
Rules is not defined.
Okay.
>> Evan You: Const rules.
You put this .options.validations.
>> Evan You: If (rules) well actually
you don't so object keys works on.
>> Evan You: Let's just do this.
Okay,
>> Evan You: So
we're achieving the desired result here.
>> Evan You: And
always just a single computed property,
really all it does is It's actually
pretty functional if you think about it.
So we have, this is the input.
The validation is the input and
this key is also input.
So the data source is the current state of
your component and these validation rule.
All we do is compute the current
status based on the source data and
then return it from within
a computed property.
And with this computed property,
we can do arbitrary rendering styling,
decide how to actually present
these error messages to the user
and you can decide preventing form
submissions, disabling buttons.
Everything is state driven so this
is sort of the way you do
model based validation.
And it actually is very similar
to how Vuelidate works.
So if you like this style of form
validation you should probably check
out Vuelidate.